
**NOTES Migration:**

To have auto increamence you will need to use Sequence. SqlAlchemy does not know how to
create sequences aparently. Therefore we have to change the upgrade code in the migration folder.

    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35775342/using-sqlalchemy-with-racle-and-flask-to-create-sequences-for-primary-key?rq=1

In your migration folder, version#.py file under upgrades you will need to have something like below.

    op.execute('create sequence id start with 1 increment by 1 nocache nocycle')

Now you can call it in your model as I did in my Base class

**MORE**

The migration only creates tables but does not create modifications in file. Meaning we may need to create our alter statments. FML Below is an example

    def upgrade():
        # ### commands auto generated by Alembic - please adjust! ###
        op.alter_column('auth_user', 'first_name', nullable=False)
        # ### end Alembic commands ###


    def downgrade():
        # ### commands auto generated by Alembic - please adjust! ###
        op.alter_column('auth_user', 'first_name', nullable=True)

     # ### end Alembic commands ###




     Once you have all that set up you are good to go. You can now feel free to use the python pip without worries

use migration

    - If it is your first migration you will need to run init to create the repo folder.
        - python testing_connection.py db init
    - Once the folder is created you will need the migration to detect changes in your    tables.
        - python testing_connection.py db migrate
    - *STOP!* At this point you may need to help SQLAlchemy with the upgrade for          Sequencesing *PLEASE LOOK AT NOTES!* Then run the below command
        -python testing_connection.py db upgrade

Run the Application:
Traditionally if I had a front end I would tell you to run it by

    python testing_conntection.py runserver

Since I do not have a front end we are going to use the test case.

    python testing_connection.py dbCreateRegUser